# 1.4 Lab 1
#### Welcome to my first blog post! In this lab, I worked with the digimon.csv dataset, from Kaggle. This dataset includes different Digimon (or "digital monsters), along with information on their stats and skills. The purpose of this lab was to learn information on the different Digimon – such as their average speed or shared attributes – and create teams of three Digimon that meet certain criteria. The conceptual purpose of this lab was to practice reading datasets, using lists and dictionaries, and iterating through data with for loops. Enjoy! 




#

## Task 1: What is the average speed of all Digimon?

##

The average speed of all Digimon is 120.4. I found this value by creating a method called average_speed. To create this method, I first considered what structure I needed. Some questions I asked myself were: Do I need a list here? That is, would it be faster to just iterate through the speeds and add them to a counter? Or would it be better to store the speeds, then iterate through and add them to a counter?  To decide, I created the following pseudocode: 

```python:
#PSEUDOCODE WITHOUT LISTS
#define method:
    # create a counter
    #create a sum
    #iterate through each digimon:
        # add the digimon's speed to the sum
        #increase counter by one
    #return average, which is sum/counter

#PSEUDOCODE WITH LISTS
#define method:
    # create an empty list of values
    #create a counter
    #create a sum
    # for digimon in data:
       # append data["Spd"] to list
    # for i (index) in the list:
        #add value of index to  sum
        #add one to counter
    #return average, which is sum/counter
```
Clearly, the latter is more inefficient and more lines, as it would necessitate iterating through the dataset two separate times. For that reason, I decided to not create a list/dictionary, and simply use a for loop to tally up all the average speeds (following the first pseudocode). I also included a counter in the for loop to find the number of Digimon, so that I could divide the sum of speeds by the number of Digimon to find the average. 

#

## Task 2: Write a function that can count the number of Digimon with a specific attribute.
For this function, I struggled a lot to discern which variables I needed to create and which I did not. For example, I spent a lot of time considering how I wanted to store the attributes of each digimon in order to compare it with the parameter attribute. To decide, I worked with Tuhin and Uddipto to come up with a pseudocode. At first, I thought I had to store the digimon's attributes in a variable, so I wrote the following pseudocode:

```python
#define the method, which should take in data, attribute, and attribute values  
    #create a counter
    #create a variable for the digimon attribute
    #create a digimon attribute value variable too
    #for digimon in data:  
        #see the if digimon's attribute is the attribute we want
            #then check if this digimon's attribute value is the attribute value we want
                # add one to the counter
    #return the counter




def count_digimon(data, attribute, attribute_value):
    counter = 0
    for digimon in data:
        if digimon[attribute] == attribute_value:
            counter += 1
    print(attribute, attribute_value)







what methods you tried, what worked or didn’t work, what could have gone better, and what you learned during this lab. Feel free to attach images, screenshots, pseudocode, etc to elaborate on your response!