# Research Meta Analysis


For this task, I considered a paper titled, “The Impact of Global Warming on Agriculture: A Ricardian Analysis.” This experiment, conducted in 1994, sought to measure the economic impact of climate change on U.S. agriculture by studying its impact on land values. The experiment used cross sectional data on factors such as climate and farmland prices for over 3,0000 counties in the United States to create these results. 

The null hypothesis states that global warming and climate change will cause devastating impacts for the environment, therefore harming and hindering agriculture processes. This experiment’s alternative hypothesis stated that global warming scenarios have lower impacts on U.S. agriculture than anticipated, and in some cases may even have economic benefits for agriculture. However, it is important to note that this experiment was one of the first of its kind to consider an array of environmental variables when assessing the future of agriculture alongside the rapid progression of global warming. 

The scientists collecting this data are Robert Mendelsohn, William D. Nordhaus, and Daigee Shaw. These scientists are current professors of environmental studies. The datasets are from information collected in different U.S. Census of agriculture, which is available to the public. The experiment considered agricultural data such as values of farm products sold per acre, information on market inputs for each county in the United States, and values of farm products. The experiment also used data about soil from the NationalResource Inventory, which takes soil samples from over 800,000 sites in the U.S. Finally, the experiment included data from the National Climatic Data Center, which “contains data from 5,511 meteorological data stations throughout the United States,” and it tracks information on precipitation and temperature from 1951 through 1980. However, this dataset does not include information on the desert Southwest, which is predicted to be a region experiencing serious warming. 

The scientists’ motive for this study was to predict the potential economic impact of global warming on agriculture. One key component of how this experiment measured data is that they collected data on only four months – January, April, July, and October – in order to “capture the seasonal effects of each variable.” However, this seasonal approach leaves out data on the impacts of global warming on the other months, so it cannot consider whether or not growing seasons shift due to global warming and the impacts of these shifts. Moreover, the experiment did not consider the effects of CO2 fertilization, but rather it only focused on an increase in average temperatures. The experiment conducted an empirical analysis in order to generate their conclusions. It compiled data on all of these variables, assessed their relative impact, and produced estimated land value increases or decreases accordingly. 

The experiment was funded by the National Science Foundation and Economic Research Service, commissioned by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (1990). I don’t think that publish or perish had an effect on this study because it was conducted upon request from the IPCC – the scientists had no risk of not being published.
